Update wallet listing policy (#6438)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/suggest_wallet.md

<!-- Are developers actively working on the wallet? Provide proof that the wallet is actively being worked on (ex. GitHub repo link). -->

**Is your wallet globally accessible?**

<!-- Please list any KYC requirements or geographic limitations of your wallet, if any exist. -->

**Is the wallet available in multiple languages?**

<!-- Please list languages that the wallet actively supports -->

**What social links are there for the project?**

<!-- Please provide social links for the wallet (Discord, Twitter, etc.) -->

### Device

**Does the wallet have a mobile app? If yes, which operating systems are supported (iOS, Android)?**

<!-- Please provide app store links for the operating systems supported. -->

**Does the wallet have a desktop app? If yes, which operating systems are supported (Windows, Mac, Linux)?**

<!-- Please provide links and information for the desktop operating systems supported. -->

**Does the wallet have a browser extension? If yes, which browsers are supported (Chromium, Firefox, Safari)?**

<!-- Please provide links and information for the browsers that are supported. -->

**Is it a hardware wallet?**

> <!-- How is it used / how does it connect (e.g. USB)? What software wallets does it integrate with? -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- How does it broadcast signed transactions (e.g. USB, Bluetooth, QR code)?  -->
```
Pulling in @wackerow suggestion

**What license is the wallet software released under?**

<!-- Please provide information on the software license used for the wallet. -->

**Who holds the private keys?**

 <!-- Users must have access to private keys without reliance on a company remaining in business to be listed as a wallet -->

<!-- Do users have access to their public and private keys? Does anyone else? If your company/project were to disappear, would users still be able to access their funds? -->

**Please describe the measures taken to ensure the wallet's security and provide documentation wherever possible**

<!-- Please provide a link to any security audits, code reports, and bug bounties. If you haven't been audited but think your wallet should be listed anyway, explain here. -->

**Spam protection?**

<!-- Does the wallet employ any practices to warn users against potential spam (e.g. when interacting with suspicious accounts/contracts)? -->

### Features

**Does the wallet support connecting to a hardware wallet?**

<!-- Please provide information on how a user can connect a hardware wallet to this wallet. -->

**Does the wallet support WalletConnect?**

> <!-- Please provide information on if the wallet supports WalletConnect. -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- Yes/No -->
```

assignees: ""
---

> Before suggesting a wallet, make sure you've read [our listing policy](https://www.ethereum.org/en/contributing/adding-products/). Only continue with the issue if your wallet meets the criteria listed there.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before suggesting a wallet, make sure you've read [our listing policy](https://www.ethereum.org/en/contributing/adding-products/). Only continue with the issue if the wallet meets the criteria listed there.
```

### Project info

**Wallet name**

  <!-- Please provide the official name of the wallet -->

**Wallet description**

<!-- Please provide a short 1-2 sentence description of the wallet. Avoid unsubstantiated marketing claims like “the best Ethereum wallet”. -->

**Wallet logo**

<!-- Please provide an SVG or hi-res transparent PNG -->

**Background color for brand logo**

<!-- Please provide a hex code for the brand color. This will be added to the background of the wallet card. -->

**URL to the project**

<!-- Please provide a URL (e.g. to the website of the wallet) -->

**URL to the documentation**

<!-- Please provide a URL to the documentation -->

**Is the wallet security tested? Please explain security measures i.e. security audit, internal security team, or some other method.**

> <!-- Please explain any security measures you have taken to ensure your wallet is secure -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<!-- Please explain any security measures you have taken to ensure the wallet is secure. -->
```

> **When did your wallet go live to users?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**When did the wallet go live to users?**
```

<!-- Please provide a date when your wallet was usable by the public. -->

> **Does your wallet have an active development team?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Does the wallet have an active development team?**
```

<!-- Are developers actively working on the wallet? Provide proof that the wallet is actively being worked on (ex. GitHub repo link). -->

> **Is your wallet globally accessible?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Is the wallet globally accessible?**
```

### Device

**Does the wallet have a mobile app? If yes, which operating systems are supported (iOS, Android)?**

<!-- Please provide app store links for the operating systems supported. -->

**Does the wallet have a desktop app? If yes, which operating systems are supported (Windows, Mac, Linux)?**

<!-- Please provide links and information for the desktop operating systems supported. -->

**Does the wallet have a browser extension? If yes, which browsers are supported (Chromium, Firefox, Safari)?**

<!-- Please provide links and information for the browsers that are supported. -->

**Is it a hardware wallet?**

<!-- How does it broadcast signed transactions (e.g. USB, Bluetooth, QR code)?  -->

### Security

**Is the source code for the wallet fully open-source?**

<!-- If yes, please provide a direct link to the repository. -->

**What license is the wallet software released under?**

<!-- Please provide information on the software license used for the wallet. -->

**Who holds the private keys?**

 <!-- Users must have access to private keys without reliance on a company remaining in business to be listed as a wallet -->

> <!-- Do users have access to their public and private keys? Does anyone else? If your company/project were to disappear, would users still be able to access their funds? -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<!-- Do users have access to their public and private keys? Does anyone else? If the company/project were to disappear, would users still be able to access their funds? -->
```

**Please describe the measures taken to ensure the wallet's security and provide documentation wherever possible**

> <!-- Please provide a link to any security audits, code reports, and bug bounties. If you haven't been audited but think your wallet should be listed anyway, explain here. -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<!-- Please provide a link to any security audits, code reports, and bug bounties. If you haven't been audited but think the wallet should be listed anyway, explain here. -->
```

**Does the wallet support sending transactions to ENS addresses?**

<!-- Please provide information on ENS support. -->

**Does the wallet support importing or automatically querying and displaying ERC-20 tokens?**

<!-- Please provide documentation on how to import tokens into the wallet. -->

**Does the wallet support EIP-1559 (type 2) transactions?**

<!-- Please provide information on how the type of transactions this wallet supports. -->

### Finance

**Does the wallet have fiat on-ramps through credit/debit cards, wire transfers, or bank transfers (ACH)?**

<!-- Please provide documentation on how a user is able to onboard and purchase crypto in the wallet. -->

**Does the wallet support withdrawals to fiat?**

<!-- Can a user cash out their crypto assets directly to a card or bank account? Please provide documentation. -->

### Smart contract

**Is the wallet a multi-signature wallet?**

<!-- Please provide documentation on how users set up and use the multisig functionality for the wallet. -->

**Does the wallet support social recovery?**

<!-- Please provide documentation on how users set up guardians and use social recovery for the wallet. -->

### Support

> **Does the wallet have a person the ethereum.org team can contact regarding the wallet in future?**

Reviewer 2: My wording before sucked

```suggestion
**Who can the ethereum.org team can contact regarding the wallet in future?**
```

<!-- If possible, provide a Telegram, Discord, or Twitter username. -->
<!-- Please note that as a result of any future dispute the wallet may be temporarily removed from ethereum.org. Having a contact person allows lets us avoid this situation and resolve issues more quickly. --> 

> **Does your wallet have a dedicated support team?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Does the wallet have a dedicated support team?**
```

<!-- Where should we send users that are having issues? -->

> <!-- How fast is your support? -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<!-- How fast is the support? -->
```

assignees: ""
---

Before suggesting a wallet, make sure you've read [our listing policy](https://www.ethereum.org/en/contributing/adding-products/). Only continue with the issue if your wallet meets the criteria listed there.

If the wallet does meet our list policy, please complete the following information which we need to accurately list the wallet.

### Project info

> **Wallet name**

Reviewer 3: 33uwXjLiGCWUJCZDetpZDdQwnij3rNMKsG

>   <!-- Please provide the official name of the wallet -->

Reviewer 3: 33uwXjLiGCWUJCZDetpZDdQwnij3rNMKsG

Reviewer 3: 0x504e1E8CB5bd07da31928cf3E0b53B3bA6971aa1

**Wallet description**

> <!-- Please provide a short 1-2 sentence description of the wallet without marketing claims. Avoid claims like “the best Ethereum wallet”. We will ask for revisions if this comes across as marketing-focused. -->

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- Please provide a short 1-2 sentence description of the wallet. Avoid unsubstantiated marketing claims like “the best Ethereum wallet”. -->
```

> 

Reviewer 3: 0x504e1E8CB5bd07da31928cf3E0b53B3bA6971aa1

Reviewer 3: ![Uploading 5F856F61-1284-4CD0-9704-F480A168823B.jpeg…]()

**Wallet logo**

> <!-- Please provide a hi-res SVG or transparent PNG -->

Reviewer 4: SVGs are vectors and all hi-res =)
```suggestion
<!-- Please provide an SVG or hi-res transparent PNG -->
```

**Background color for brand logo**

<!-- Please provide a hex code for the brand color. This will be added to the background of the wallet card. -->

**URL to the project**

<!-- Please provide a URL (e.g. to the website of the wallet) -->

> **URL to the documentation**

Author: I think we can remove - seems to be a duplicate of the question in the support section:

> **What educational resources/documentation do you provide to users?**

Reviewer 4: @corwintines Was the goal here to distinguish between _developer documentation_ for the wallet itself and _user education_ on how to use the software?

Reviewer: I think both, but I can edit the copy for that later question to capture this.

<!-- Please provide a URL to the documentation -->

> **Is your wallet security tested? Please explain security measures i.e. security audit, internal security team, or some other method.**

Author: I think we can remove this - this is covered in the security section:

> **Please describe the measures taken to ensure the wallet's security and provide documentation wherever possible**

> **Is your wallet security tested? Please explain security measures i.e. security audit, internal security team, or some other method.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Is the wallet security tested? Please explain security measures i.e. security audit, internal security team, or some other method.**
```

> **Is your wallet security tested? Please explain security measures i.e. security audit, internal security team, or some other method.**

Reviewer 2: @corwintines thoughts on this?

> **Is your wallet security tested? Please explain security measures i.e. security audit, internal security team, or some other method.**

Reviewer: Will put this in the security section.

<!-- Please explain any security measures you have taken to ensure your wallet is secure -->

**When did your wallet go live to users?**

<!-- Please provide a date when your wallet was usable by the public. Please provide some user metrics for how many users are using this wallet. -->

> **Does your wallet have an active development team?**

Reviewer 4: **Open question for discussion:** Should an active development team be noted as an absolute requirement?
Also, what defines _active_? 

My take is this should be a requirement to keep users safe. Ethereum is still relatively young and has many upgrades being rolled out, and listed wallets should have developers maintaining the codebase and tending to bug reports. 

Not sure what the cutoff should be though for an "inactive" project... Perhaps either an official announcement, or no code commits for > 6 mos?

Reviewer: I do think an active development team is a requirement. Just last year there was the EIP-1559 upgrade that required wallets to upgrade as a single example where there are changes that wallets would need to support. If anything this is almost the main requirement out of all of this.

> <!-- Please provide a date when your wallet was usable by the public. Please provide some user metrics for how many users are using this wallet. -->

Author: > Please provide some user metrics for how many users are using this wallet.

Not sure we need to ask for this. I could see how it'd be nice have some assurance that e.g. the wallet has has been used in production by thousands of users before encouraging all our visitors to use. On the other hand it feels like a bit of an overreach to ask for this data.

Reviewer 4: I think any data we collect here is going to be far from accurate, and impossible to prove. I agree that it would be nice to offer some reassurances, but I don't think it's worth the ask for something like this.

In either case, I don't see anything in the current design (unless I missed it) for how this data would be used anyways. If there isn't, I would opt for removing this question.

Reviewer: I agree overall. I think it would be hard to actually track this data. In an ideal world we could use this, but I agree it can be removed for now as its unlikely to be helpful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- Please provide a date when your wallet was usable by the public. -->
```

<!-- Are developers actively working on the wallet? Provide proof that the wallet is actively being worked on (ex. GitHub repo link). -->

**Is your wallet globally accessible?**

<!-- Please list any KYC requirements or geographic limitations of your wallet, if any exist. -->

> **Is there internationalization support for your wallet?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Is the wallet available in multiple languages?**
```

<!-- Please list languages that the wallet actively supports -->

**What is the repository for your codebase?**

> <!-- If you’re project is open source, please provide a link to the codebase. -->

Reviewer 2: We should move this below the 'is the wallet open-source' question

Reviewer: Since we ask for the repo in that question I agree this can be removed.

**What social links are there for the project?**

> <!-- Please provide social links for the wallet (Discord, Twitter, etc.) -->

Reviewer 2: Are we going to use this information? We should probably ask for exactly what we want if we are.

Reviewer 4: I don't see this explicitly in the design right now. @nloureiro Was there a plan to include these?

For comparison to other areas of the site, we have the socials in the `staking-products.json` for each product, but we ended up not adding these to the product cards that get rendered. Agree if we decide to not include this in the design then we should probably remove the question.

Reviewer: Im ok if these arent in v1 of this release, but I do think at some point showing this information would be ideal.

Reviewer 2: > Im ok if these arent in v1 of this release, but I do think at some point showing this information would be ideal.

Then perhaps we ask explicitly? It'll save a bunch of time in the future.

Discord server:
Twitter:
what else?

> **What is your wallet's onboarding experience?**

Author: I feel like maybe we could drop this question. What insights are we looking to gain from this info?

Reviewer 2: I'm down to have questions that we don't actively use but that allow us to gather insights. However, I would struggle with how to answer this question in its current wording.

Reviewer 4: I think questions that are geared towards us just "gathering more insight" pull us further away from objectively listing products that meet certain criteria. It implies that if our team "doesn't like" your onboarding process that you may not be listed.

If there are objective aspects of the onboarding process that we think are important, I think we should identify and ask about those instead.

Reviewer: Will remove this question. Further down we ask for documentation and I think we will get that info there. If anything this is a duplicate that can be removed.

<!-- Please provide an explanation of where to find the user onboarding experience (links, is it built into the app, etc.), and what the onboarding experience is. -->

### Device

**Does the wallet have a mobile app? If yes, which operating systems are supported (iOS, Android)?**

> <!-- If the wallet has a mobile interface, please provide information and links to the app store for the operating systems supported. -->

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- Please provide app store links for the operating systems supported. -->
```

**Does the wallet have a desktop app? If yes, which operating systems are supported (Windows, Mac, Linux)?**

> <!-- If the wallet has a desktop interface, please provide links and information for the operating systems supported. -->

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- Please provide links and information for the desktop operating systems supported. -->
```

**Does the wallet have a browser extension? If yes, which browsers are supported (Chromium, Firefox, Safari)?**

> <!-- If the wallet has a browser extension, please provide links and information for the browsers that are supported. -->

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- Please provide links and information for the browsers that are supported. -->
```

**Is it a hardware wallet?**

> <!-- How is it used / how does it connect (e.g. USB)? What software wallets does it integrate with (e.g. MetaMask)? -->

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- How is it used / how does it connect (e.g. USB)? What software wallets does it integrate with? -->
```

Reviewer 4: Might suggest limiting this one... Wouldn't expect a hardware wallet producer to necessarily know every wallet that ends up integrating with it. 

```suggestion
<!-- How is it used / how does it connect (e.g. USB, Bluetooth, QR code)? What software wallets does it integrate with (if multiple, limit answer to 3 wallets)? -->
```

Reviewer 4: Or maybe we should just make this singular? Now that I think about it, not sure how we'd use that info. We can use the connection as a security parameter, but are we actually going to list which software wallets pair up with a hardware wallet listing? 

```suggestion
<!-- How does it broadcast signed transactions (e.g. USB, Bluetooth, QR code)?  -->
```

### Security

> **Is the wallet code open-sourced?**

Reviewer: Agreed

<!-- If yes, please provide a direct link to the repository. -->

> **What license was the wallet software released under?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**What license is the wallet software released under?**
```

<!-- Please provide information on the software license used for the wallet. -->

> **Is your wallet custodial, or non-custodial?**

Author: ```suggestion
**Is your wallet custodial or non-custodial?**
```

Author: Is this always binary answer? e.g. didn't Coinbase Wallet recently describe theirs as "semi-custodial"? 
https://twitter.com/petejkim/status/1527027598898905088?s=20&t=9bLBC4t7psrIr-3SNxrFIA

Reviewer 4: Yeah.. Agree entirely with that confusion you mention @minimalsm

Also, quick soap box here related to these terms... I would personally be in favor of ditching both of these terms (Custodial and Non-Custodial).

"Non-custodial wallet" => "wallet"
"Custodial wallet" => "account" (aka not a wallet)

Traditional wallets hold cash... anyone ever refer to their cash wallet as a non-custodial wallet?
Crypto wallets hold keys... your keys, your crypto. Not your keys, not your crypto, and not a wallet.

I push this because over time the idea of "custodial wallets" has become the norm by many regulators, and any form of you holding your own keys to your own funds is seen as abnormal, when in reality it should be flipped. Crypto was founded on individuals holding their own keys, not the other way around. 

Semi-custodial options like the one mentioned I need to read more about myself, but in the meantime I think if the user has no access and complete reliance on a company holding their keys, then it shouldn't be listed as a wallet at all. 

maybe something like..
```suggestion
**Who holds the private keys?**

 <!-- Users must have access to private keys without reliance on a company remaining in business to be listed as a wallet -->
```

> <!-- Do users have access to their public and/or private keys? If your company/project were to disappear, would users still be able to access their funds? -->

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- Do users have access to their public and private keys? Does anyone else? If your company/project were to disappear, would users still be able to access their funds? -->
```

**Please describe the measures taken to ensure the wallet's security and provide documentation wherever possible**

> <!-- Please provide a link to any security audits or code reports. If you haven't been audited but think your wallet should be listed anyway, explain here. -->

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- Please provide a link to any security audits, code reports, and bug bounties. If you haven't been audited but think your wallet should be listed anyway, explain here. -->
```

**Spam protection?**

> <!-- Does the wallet employ any practices to warn users against potential spam (e.g. when interacting with suspicious accounts/contracts)? -->

Reviewer 2: Is spam the right word here? I'm curious do we know which wallets have features like this?

### Features

> **Does the wallet have hardware wallet support?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Does the wallet support connecting to a hardware wallet?**
```

> <!-- Please provide information on how a user can connect a hardware wallet to this wallet. -->

Reviewer 4: Curious how we would use this info? Wouldn't this one be more of a binary yes/no?

Reviewer: Yeah, this is more binary. My idea here is a link to documentation like this: https://docs.metamask.io/guide/signing-data.html#signing-data-with-metamask

**Does the wallet support WalletConnect?**

> <!-- Please provide information on if the wallet supports WalletConnect. -->

Reviewer 4: WalletConnect can just be a simple yes/no, wouldn't ask to "provide information" here... super easy to confirm [which wallets support WalletConnect](https://walletconnect.com/registry).

Reviewer: Yeah this can just be yes or no.

**Does the wallet support importing Ethereum RPC endpoints?**

<!-- Please provide documentation on how a user can import an Ethereum RPC into the wallet. -->

**Does the wallet support viewing and interacting with NFTs?**

<!-- Please provide information on the experience of NFTs in the wallet. -->

**Does the wallet support connecting to Ethereum applications?**

<!-- Please provide documentation for how users connect to applications. List examples (ie. connect wallet to dapp, in wallet browser, etc.) -->

> **Does the wallet support staking directly?**

Author: I wonder how important this feature is given that users could just swap for liquid staking tokens?

Reviewer 4: Probably less important. There is still a difference between adding more ETH to the pool, compared to just buying someone elses stake, but I hear ya. I think it's still worth leaving this in.

<!-- Please provide documentation on direct staking this wallet supports. -->

**Does the wallet support swaps directly?**

<!-- Please provide documentation on swaps. -->

> **Does the wallet support multi-chain networks?**

Author: ```suggestion
**Does the wallet support layer 2 networks?**
```
Curious what folks think of "layer 2" vs. "multi-chain"? Or should we include both?

Ultimately I suspect L2 is what we care about. Users may want other EVM chains. There could also be user benefit in e.g. Bitcoin support in a wallet (like Ledger does).

Reviewer 4: Yeah, I see L2 and multi-chain as two different feature sets... one is contained within the Ethereum security bubble, the other is many different security bubbles.

Yes, in general, it's about which networks the wallet can connect to... but someone who uses Ethereum may reasonably want to find a wallet that supports L2s so they can inherit Ethereum's L1 security and still afford gas.

Meanwhile, someone who uses many cryptocurrencies on many chains care that their wallet also supports these other chains.

So my vote would be to include both. We should ask what non-EVM chains are compatible, and also what Ethereum L2s are compatible, imo.

Reviewer: I agree with the notion here, but my pushback would be from our discussions of what layer 2's are. I think a user would want to look at validiums or optimistic chains as well, which I would say still fall under the bundle of scaling Ethereum, but we don't classify it as a layer 2. That being said, I think that is more captured in the RPC importing question. Down for a discussion, but I think I agree with this suggestion.

<!-- Please provide documentation on multi-chain networks this wallet supports. -->

**Does the wallet allow the user to customize gas fees?**

<!-- Please provide documentation on how users can customize gas fees for transactions. -->

> **Does the wallet support ENS?**

Author: I'm not exactly sure what this means - the wallet supports sending transactions to an ENS address? Perhaps we can make this more clear.

Reviewer 4: @samajammin Assuming it means that you can send funds by typing in someones .eth address
```suggestion
**Does the wallet support sending to an ENS address?**
```
@minimalsm No, receiving funds is a passive process

Reviewer 4: Or maybe 
```suggestion
**Does the wallet support sending to .eth addresses?**
```

<!-- Please provide information on ENS support. -->

**Does the wallet support importing or automatically querying and displaying ERC-20 tokens?**

<!-- Please provide documentation on how to import tokens into the wallet. -->

**Does the wallet support EIP-1559 style transactions?**

<!-- Please provide information on how the type of transactions this wallet supports. -->

### Finance

> **Does the wallet have fiat on-ramps through credit/debit cards or wire transfers, or Bank transfers (ACH)?**

Author: ```suggestion
**Does the wallet have fiat on-ramps through credit/debit cards, wire transfers, or bank transfers (ACH)?**
```

<!-- Please provide documentation on how a user is able to onboard and purchase crypto in the wallet. -->

> <!-- Credit/debit cards -->

Author: ✂️

<!-- Wire transfer -->
<!-- Bank Transfer (ACH) -->

**Does the wallet support withdrawals to fiat?**

<!-- Can a user cash out their crypto assets directly to a card or bank account? Please provide documentation. -->

> ### Smart Contract

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Smart contract
```

**Is the wallet a multi-signature wallet?**

<!-- Please provide documentation on how users set up and use the multisig functionality for the wallet. -->

**Does the wallet support social recovery?**

<!-- Please provide documentation on how users set up guardians and use social recovery for the wallet. -->

> ### Support
> 

Reviewer 2: Having a contact would be grrrreat 😀

```suggestion
### Support

**Does the wallet have a person the ethereum.org team can contact regarding the wallet in future?**

<!-- If possible, provide a Telegram, Discord, or Twitter username. -->
<!-- Please note that as a result of any future dispute the wallet may be temporarily removed from ethereum.org. Having a contact person allows lets us avoid this situation and resolve issues more quickly. --> 

```

**Does your wallet have a dedicated support team?**

<!-- Where should we send users that are having issues? -->
<!-- How fast is your support? -->

**What educational resources/documentation do you provide to users?**

> 

Author: ```suggestion

<!-- Please provide links to documentation and/or educational resources -->
```

> <!-- Please provide links to documentation and/or educational resources -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- Please provide links to developer documentation, user documentation, and/or educational resources -->
```
